---
title: "Images and Videos"
layout: splash
permalink: /images/
date: 2025-03-17
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.25"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/stab_banner.png
  #actions:
  #  - label: "Learn more"
  #    url: /about/
  #caption: "Photo credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com)"
excerpt: "Videos and figures from the paper"
intro:
  - excerpt: ""

---

<div style="text-align:center">
{% include video id="f1a28KAGCGs" provider="youtube" %}
Please credit: "Douglas Blackiston (Levin Lab)".
</div>
<br>
In the above video, you can see a video of an organoid being punctured with a needle (the major intervention explored in the paper). The puncture occurs at around the 12 second mark: notice how the pattern of calcium flashes changes in response to the attack before returning to equilibrium - this is indicative of an immediate and long-term response to tissue injury that is believed to be part of the healing process.

{% include figure popup=true image_path="/assets/images/FIG1.png" width="640" %}

**A**: 4-cell stage of embryonic development, **B**: animal cap excised after 24 hours, **C**: spheroid tissue after another 24 hours, and **D**: compressed spheroid tissue into disk. 7 days post-fertilization calcium imaging was performed, **E**: Individual frame of calcium intensity, **F**: average intensity of stacked frames, **G** and **H**: Cell identification. **I** and **J**: experimental setup where the tissue is punctured with a glass capillary. **K**: Kymograph analysis was performed on the explant outside the conventional timescale (on the order of milliseconds), because it is only when the timescale is on the order of thousands of seconds are new structures are observed within the tissue. What these structures represent requires further investigations beyond the scope of kymograph analysis. Calcium transience within these tissues displays more diverse structures when longer timescales are observed.

{% include figure popup=true image_path="/assets/images/FIG2.png" width="640" %}

**A:** Average pixel intensity over time, observed signal peaks at the time of puncture (t = 0s) and remains unstable for a period post puncture. Frames at the time of puncture are removed, producing two distinct videos: pre- puncture (blue) and post- puncture (red). **B:** Calcium transience throughout the observation time frame. Orientation of the organoid changes due to impact from the needle at t = 0s. **C:** Cell segmentation as determined by Cellpose pre- puncture. **D:** Raw calcium signal intensity time series for a random sample of nine segmented cells (a-k) pre- puncture. **E:** The same time series after post-processing with global signal regression and transformation into feature. **F:** FC networks are generated by computing mutual information between all pairs of cells’ processed signal intensity time series. Nodes of the network (blue dots) represent segmented cells in the organoid. Edges of the network (gray lines) represent non-zero mutual information between a given pair of nodes. **G-J:** Same as C-F but for the post- puncture video and displayed in red.

---
